# college_recent_grads

The first part of this project was a guided project inspired by DataQuest.  I then drilled into the data further and created my own questions and visualiztions to practice.
The original data on job outcomes was released by American Community Survey. They conduct surveys and aggregate the data. The dataset we are using is the job outcomes of students who graduated from college between 2010 and 2012. The dataset was cleaned and releasd on the [Github repo](https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/college-majors) for FiveThirtyEight.
The rows in the dataset correspond to a different college major and contain information such as gender diversity, employment rates, and median salaries. 

The most popular majors do not have the highest median salary. The major category of Engineering has the highest median income (57383), followed closely by Business (43538) and Physical Sciences (41890). The Business category has the highest number of students with nearly half being women students. The median salary for Business is above average at 43538. Physical Sciences has over 50% women and a median above average. The category with the highest median of 57383 is Engineering where the share of women is just under a quarter of the total students. The Engineering category is comprised of numerous engineering majors within that category. We drilled down a little further to see if the women share and median salaries are consistent throughout. The top three majors for median salary in Engineering are Petroleum Engineering, Mining and Mineral Engineering, and Metallurgical Engineering. These three have some of the lowest share of women between 10-15%.

We then compared median salaries and unemployment rate for majors with an over 80% share of women and less than 20% share of women. The majors with a higher share of women, over 80% women, had lower median incomes than majors with a majority of men. We discovered there were 18 majors with more than 80% women. On the other end, there were 19 majors with less than 20% women. Out of a total of 172 majors, 10.5% were more than 80% women and 11.1% were less than 20% women.

The median salary trends below the average for the women dominant majors and above average for the male dominant majors. The unemployment for women majority majors is spread over a much larger range than men and has some of the higher unemployment rates. The last thing we looked at was the type of jobs for these two datasets. The categories of job include jobs requiring a college degree, not requiring a college degree, and low-wage service jobs. The distribution was very close for these, with women around 3% higher for low-wage jobs. 

The data is from 2010-2012 it would be interesting to see how these distributions have changed in the past 10-8 years. We could also research what programs and incentives may have been created to close the gap in Engingeering majors for men and women and determine their efficacy.